So like these are different
values are stored.
So it compares this function to another
function, different memory addresses.
We're assigning it each way through.
Okay, the rules of react,
memo apply, everything works, right.
It's like the code works just not
as you expected, but it works.
So we clearly need like a few more
tools in order to handle this, right.
And react has those tools for
us because this is obviously like,
why would react memo exist if
you use hooks and thereby?
It wasn't a thing.
Interestingly, this is not as
much of an issue with classes,
because methods are the same.
They're the same function attached to
that object on the prototype, right.
So, point four class-based components,
that methods are the same object in memory
every time, you're not redefining them.
Unless you do some of the modern stuff,
where you're gonna assign
it to a class variable.
Unless you do the kind of class components
I was writing before I switched over to
functional components.
Where I was just opting out of
most of the goodness anyway.
But generally speaking react has
some tools to help us with this.
UseMemo not to be confused with
react now and useCallback, right.
You've probably heard of these before,
useMemo is a way to say
use effects friend.
It's like use effect and use callback
are hanging out with each other.
It's saying like, hey,
generate random number,
that was an expensive function, right.
And let's say it took some arguments.
If all these other things that you
rely on are the same, don't run.
If you have a pure function that
the idea of a pure function is like.
If the same inputs go in
the same value comes out, right?
And you've seen these are the same
inputs you saw as last time.
We don't need running again,
we know how the story ends, right.
So it's great for any kind of expensive
value that you might be running.
You can even use it or on components and
stuff like that to like, okay,
we've run out we've got
the component rendered.
There's a bunch of interesting
things you can do with it.
Probably more commonly is useCallback and
useCallback is,
I'm gonna hand you this function.
It's clearly got set items
from a closure scope, right.
And you definitely need
to know about that.
And items more importantly,
cuz if you're gonna push onto the array.
If you have an old array.
You're gonna push on to an old array and
now you state matters
it's gonna get all weird.
So all the things that
you rely on are the same.
Don't with function held on last time.
This is kind of when we saw you say
initializer function on the floor or
previous values on the floor.
These data structures in that react fibres
are familiar with what happened last time,
even if you're not.
As you say if I just looked at all
the things you said that this thing cares
about, they're the same.
So I'll give you back the one
from last time, right.
And that will actually get you the same
memory reference to the function and
then make all of this work.
So we can go ahead, and
this becomes basically as simple as,
UseCallback, we can wrap the function and
we're given that
dependency list, really the only
one we care about is items.
And you'll notice that like,
yes, lint doesn't yell at me for
not having said items.
Would anyone like to venture a guess why?
Yeah.
>> Just because it's still
within the scope, right.
>> Yesish,
because this is just setting it,
react is already actually
using effectively.
UseCallback to give me
the same version every time.
This one is not changing.
I am getting a same memory
reference every time to set item.
But items,
I'm literally redefining it all the time.
The only thing in this app is items so
by definition,
those are regenerating every time.
But this is saying like
unless items has changed.
I don't need you worrying about this,
right.
And so useCallback will kind of give
you the same thing as long as this
hasn't changed.
Now, like we said before, most of the time
that is like the thing that changes in
this application like
I could pull back up.
The draft item, I could go put in
that ridiculous code that I had.
This is mostly to kind of show you the
demonstration of why it didn't work and
how it can work.
But it is the kind of solution for
this problem and like for this one,
especially for functions,
which don't change.
This is a pretty safe and
reasonable thing to do especially if you
are creating custom hooks yourself, right.
In the same way that set
items is static every time.
I would expect that if I got
a some kind of setter function.
From either a third party hook or
one that we made the same
principle would be there, right.
This is a thing that yeah,
we're binding them together.
Awesome, and I'll show you how
to not do this in a second too.
But for the most part like this I think
is under the things where it's like,
I think this is definitely a fair and
safe one to do.
Cuz you're not getting any benefits
by whipping up a new function every
time either.
So, gotta give the list.
Items.
And then there's a need be like
I should use use memo on these.
It's tricky because the only thing
that's out that could ever change is
the items and so if there were more
things and this was expensive, yeah,
totally go for it right on.
But doing that,
when you get no benefit is just pointless,
right, And so some of this stuff is like.
If the answer was always yes,
it would happen for you,
like they would just do it.
Yes, Mark.
>> So you recommend using,
useCallback instead of useMemo due
to creating of the new functions?
>> So you use them for different cases.
If I wanted the value to be persisted
unless things change I use useMemo.
If I want a function that's the same
reference every time I useCallback.
UseCallback is for when I need a function.
UseMemo is for when I need a value.
It's just basically joining a value or
a function if I use useMemo here I
would get the result of this all right.
Now the function itself that I
wanna pass down to items, so
the items are the ones that will pass
in the ID to remove them, yes Mark,
>> Will memo work with nested prop
changes.
>> I think it's still a shallow compare.
I'm trying to remember if it takes
another argument I don't think it does.
It's like in the same way you saw that
react that memo took it like is now it's I
think it's just looking
at the highest level.
But you could say object.property if you
only cared about one property of that.
It's like the nice part is that
like EsLint will do both for you.
If you ever set up it will both yell
at you when you're missing something.
I think, if I'm not mistaken sometimes,
yell at you if you pass something
that's not gonna change.
I have been yelled at it by before,
but will tell you.
But generally speaking,
the things that you basically,
you can have static analysis to it or
you can look at your own code.
What are the things that you're calling.
That are coming from
outside the closure scope.
So obviously, this exists
statically cuz I'm importing it.
These two arguments, it's really items and
set items that could be possibly,
I think if I put like update
items in here I'll get yelled at.
Yeah, you can see React to reduce
callback has an unnecessary dependency.
Update item either exclude it or
remove the dependency array.
Other out of scope values like aren't
valid dependencies cuz doesn't rerender
the component.
So you get a sense of what
the right things are in that sense.
You can have the tooling help you.
You can put it through all these.
Should have kept that set up just function
there but we'll do it in a second.
But these are now every unless items
change which is a thing that happens
a lot In this particular if I
put something else in here,
like a timer or something,
that doesn't change it.
These will stay the same and
they won't trigger a reminder, right yeah.
>> So, definitely speaking,
if the function does not have any effect.
And it definitely is a pure function and
you're interested only in the output you
useMemo because you don't
even need to run it anymore.
>> Mm-hm.
>> And in cases like this,
when you have some sort of effect where
you're in state or doing anything else.
You useCallback because you're
interested in the execution of the body.
>> Yep, exactly right.
And the important thing
to note is that like,
this is only if I want these helpers.
If I was comfortable passing down
set items to the entire chain or
dispatch on a reducer.
Like I said before those
are the same value every time.
It's only because I'm whipping these
functions up on the fly up here.
Cuz I need to for some reason maybe
there's some information that they need
up here something along those lines.
Then I do need to say unless it as
long as the things you rely on,
as long as the reason why you're up
here hasn't changed be the same one,
but set items itself dispatch on use
reducer stuff along those lines.
Those are static every time,
they are the same reference like
this has already been done to them.
Cuz they're just updating that
data structure inside of React.
They have access to
the full history of things.
They know everything.
They don't necessarily care about
what's in this current closure scope.
But if you define the function here,
everything in this scope
is accessible to it.
And if those variables have changed,
you're gonna get
an old version of the function
that knows about an old world.
When Hooks came out,
it's like you traded all of your class
hierarchy problems for
closure problems, right?
It's so much simpler.
Now you have a new set of things a worker,
which is how closures work in JavaScript.
And will occasionally bite you but
this will always be whatever items
was at the time it was written,
not what it is eventually, right.
So this says if items changes
throw the old one out.
And get me one that knows about
what the current latest and
greatest version of items is, right.
And since we immutably changed things if
we had mutable state that wouldn't be
the same thing that we were modifying.
But like we've long since either discarded
it or actually garbage collected it.
Not because there's a closure scope,
but generally speaking,
it will be an old version
of that variable.
So this is a way to say that's totally
cool because I wanna React Memo to work,
but at the same time.
If that becomes out of date,
then go get me a fresh one, all right.
Which way you do need to pass
that new thing down, and
have all that kind of work.
And this is true even with
the context API, right.
Because the contact API is just basically
pulling this out of the function.
And letting places hook into it but all
the same rules apply in this case as well.
But this is a powerful way to get
functions that we find that will then work
us through React Memo.
I should put back that silly
function that I wrote earlier.
Did I just saved it?
No, so, we'll just say
Cool.
SetTimeout, For
a second here
we'll flip over,
And just so you make sure we're
keeping ourselves honest.
The application re-renders, right.
You saw the big box
around the entire thing.
Because that's where we're
changing that state.
Now that should, but
nothing else re-rendered.
Right, because those are still
the same update and remove.
They're getting passed
all the way through.
Like I said before, if you just wanted
to pass setItems all the way through and
then figure out everything else down
at the bottom, that also works and
will save you the useCallbacks, right.
You can just import all these functions in
all the different places that you need to.
And I think that works if you're just
trying to get it down to one grandchild,
great grandchild component.
If you find yourself needing it
at various places along the way,
now you're just importing
stuff all over the place.
Now it becomes like, is it performance?
Sure, is it code that you can maintain?
No, right, one of my hot takes is
that backend services when they
don't scale it's because
the database falls over under load.
And stuff like that a lot of times with
front end code bases we do manage just
like tons and tons of state.
It's that like all of a sudden
when we get asked for
a very simple feature we
tell them three months.
It's because sometimes we over
optimized for different things.
And now maintaining your own code
base is borderline impossible, right.
And so sometimes it's about thinking about
those trade offs in that sense as well.
But yeah, these are static but
any function that you make,
along the way, if you don't deal with it.
Or either rapid or then do these
techniques where you're just passing thing
and then importing the other
pieces where you need it.
You will end up breaking your own React
memo, and then also paying the cost for
that react revenue in the first place.
It's like you get
the worst of both worlds.
You're now doing
the comparison all the time.
And it's always failing, right.
You might as well just taking it would
have been more performant without
the React memo on it at that point, right.
Because like it would have
been re-rendering anyway.
And so it's like that's where sometimes
measuring is important which is sure.
Try it out, absolutely put it on there.
Try to guess a future you is
gonna have to deal with, right,
because you can't measure
future years code right now.
But then make sure that you're
actually getting a gain or
make sure they're stopping anything.
If you just blindly take it as advice.
And you just go for it you could
literally be making the problem maybe not
dramatically worse, but over time.
Incrementally worse,
right until you then have to.
And it's a lot harder to triage
why a bunch of light implicitly
memorizing stuff is slowing stuff down.
Than just seeing a prop shoot
all the way down through it, so
you get a harder bug to solve.
Also, the idea of caching stuff
when it shouldn't be cast.
Every year you take on not
only performance risk, but
you also take on a little bit of a
weirdness cache invalidation problem mess.
Where you now have a weird bug, right.
You're playing with a little bit of fire.
That's why component hierarchies first,
right stuff like memo lane,
those things are there for
a reason, right.
Absolutely use them, but we try to do our
due diligence as we're going through.
And we try to understand the problem and
see what our options are that
are available to us.
Awesome, so generally speaking,
let's look at,
if I take out my silly code,
let's use the app a little bit.
There's still gonna be a decent amount
of cuz there's really only items in this
particular one.
We'll play with some
other ones in a second.
But like if I edit one,
it's a lot of things like new
item name is that one rendering.
That's interesting.
Do we put it on that one?
Cuz that one should not, right?
That's when we would like
to see stop at this point.
That's interesting.
I'm curious why.
it's getting an item to ever
useCallback on that one.
That one should stop.
Let's take a look
Interesting, let's make sure
that's actually happening.
Well, I'll take a look at the second.
That's true.
All right, so we saw header.
It might just been the one above and
the one below it and
the shell around the side.
I can tell that I saw the green thing,
I was like, is that rendering?
It's clearly not.
The two lists which are theoretically
the same list before they're rendered.
And let's talk about
that a little bit too,
cuz I think there's an interesting point
there that is a tricky problem to solve.
The only things that are item was
prompting to update removed because
items change.
Everything is actually at this
moment working as expected.